well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again it's time to give the elites a
bigger say in choosing the president
that's an op-ed headline the Washington
Post right underneath the the slogan
democracy dies in the darkness because
that's funny yeah so is the article as
bad as the headline yes yes it is
basically it the establishment is having
trouble getting the candidates that they
would like so they need to rework the
system so the elites have even more
control over who us common folk get to
vote on because the endorsement scheme
you know the rocker roller cola wars
that we have going on that that isn't
working in their favor right now and the
outside candidates are still gaining
ground so they need to change that
what's proposed a ranked choice voting
scheme which is sometimes good thing but
it's combined with like an exit poll on
various issues that is of course public
but not binding so the elites don't
actually have to do what the people want
them to do in our representative
democracy and of course the elites would
get to chose who get to choose who we
get to rank-choice voting just to be
real clear that's Oleg our key that's
not democracy just just to let you know
that's that's how you end up with the
choices of Jack Johnson and John Jackson
if there's going to be no meaningful
difference between the candidates and
it's going to be an oligarchy I get it
though parties need primary reform sure
we can go with that let's just keep it
simple let's say March 15th date doesn't
matter
everybody Republican and Democratic
alike goes and heads to the polls and
they vote in the primary nationwide at
one time popular vote wins
those are your candidates that's direct
democracy that that's that's a democracy
that's how that would work
but I do understand that that still
allows the elites to have a little bit
more control than I'd like because
they're going to get to pick who the
primary candidates are so a little bit
more complicated suggestion would be
lets say the month of January any person
who wants the job of being president
they've got the month of January to
collect a million signatures if they do
that they're on the debate stage and the
debate stage includes Republicans and
Democrats so that debate takes place in
February and about a week after the
debate once everybody's read the
commentary and figured out what they
what they liked and what they didn't you
vote again bottom 50% of the candidates
are gone regardless of party and this
includes the incumbent by the way they
need to be on the debate stage too and
then that process just repeats until you
have two candidates left or four and do
rank-choice voting if that's really how
we want to do this and I know some
people well but if my my party doesn't
get a candidate in the last two or the
last four to bad part of the problem
right now is that we are trusting our
betters via leads to make the decisions
for us and then once a year once every
four years we go in and vote for whoever
has the right letter after their name
it's not about substance it's not
democracy these people aren't
representing us that's part of the
problem so if you want your candidate
you need to be involved year round
see you can't just wing it at the last
moment that's how we winded up with a
candidate a president like the one we
have now a national embarrassment we do
need to work on our democracy we do need
to adjust the way the primaries are
conducted but if we want to maintain our
democracy we need to remove power from
the party elites and put it back into
the hands of the rank-and-file and I'm
saying this as somebody who isn't a
Democrat and isn't a Republican
incidentally if you did the petition
thing all those third party candidates
well they get to be on the stage too if
they get a million signatures it's
almost like it would remove party
affiliation from the presidency
democracy is advanced citizenship one
day every four years that doesn't cut it
letting the elites do your thinking for
you
that's how we wound up here anyway it's
just a thought y'all have a good night